Add get started (#1269)
openziti/ziti-doc: docusaurus/docs/learn/get-started.mdx

---

> title: Get started

Reviewer: title in nav should just be 'Get started' yes, but h1 I would say should be 'Get started with OpenZiti'. I think i remember you saying that it's redundant since you're on OpenZiti docs but for an h1, it's got to be representative--and when I link to this page from other docs, the hyperlink text will be 'Get started with OpenZiti'. And then for SEO and things, people will be landing here from other pages and sites and it's got to be immediately clear what you're looking at.

sidebar_position: 0
id: get-started
---

import { DownloadSection } from '@netfoundry/docusaurus-theme/ui';

Start an OpenZiti overlay in just a couple of minutes and start exploring. The `ziti edge quickstart` command runs a 
short-lived controller and router together in a single process, perfect for learning OpenZiti and exploring zero trust 

> firsthand. When you cancel the process (using `ctrl+c`) the overlay cleans up after itself. When you're ready to go 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
firsthand. When you cancel the process (using `ctrl+c`), the overlay cleans up after itself. When you're ready to go 
```

further and want to make a long-lived overlay, check out the [deployment guides](@openzitidocs/category/deployments) 
to stand up a network that will last.

## 1. Download the `ziti` CLI

<DownloadSection
  windows={{ links: [
    { arch: 'x86_64', url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-windows-amd64.zip' },
    { arch: 'ARM64',  url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-windows-arm64.zip' },
  ]}}
  macos={{ links: [
    { arch: 'x86_64', url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-darwin-amd64.tar.gz' },
    { arch: 'ARM64',  url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-darwin-arm64.tar.gz' },
  ]}}
  linux={{ links: [
    { arch: 'x86_64', url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-linux-amd64.tar.gz' },
    { arch: 'ARM64',  url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-linux-arm64.tar.gz' },
    { arch: 'ARM',    url: 'https://github.com/openziti/ziti/releases/latest/download/ziti-linux-arm.tar.gz' },
  ]}}
/>

## 2. Run the quickstart

> By default, the controller and router will be configured to use the machine's hostname as the address advertised to clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the controller and router are configured to use the machine's hostname as the address advertised to clients.
```

This often works fine for local dev or on a local network, but it might not be sufficient. Use the `--ctrl-address` and 
`--router-address` flags to set an advertised address that every device you want on the overlay can actually reach.

```bash
ziti edge quickstart \
  --ctrl-address "quickstart.demo.openziti.io" \
  --router-address "quickstart.demo.openziti.io"
```

That's it. The controller and router will both start up and be ready to secure your traffic.

## 3. Verify using `ziti`

> After about 10 seconds your overlay will be up and running. Confirm the controller's management API is ready for you to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After about 10 seconds, your overlay will be up and running. Log in to confirm the controller's management API is ready for you 
```

> start exploring by logging in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to start exploring.
```

```bash
ziti edge login --username admin --password admin
```

> Check the `router-quickstart` edge router is online.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check that the `router-quickstart` edge router is online.
```
